So now that we got this open button working here,
we've got our basic, our very basic modal functionality in place. Now a next step that would be great
is if we could customise the content of this modal a bit more.
Right now, we can pass in our own body, our own main content but what about the title? Would be nice
if we could pass in the title too and for setting the title,
there are of course two possible routes we could take.
One option would be to have like a modal title attribute here which we can set.
We could certainly do that,
we could set this attribute here and then in modal.js, in the connectedCallback which we don't have
yet because we don't need it and we could add it of course, we could extract that attribute and we could
then initialize our h1 tag content here with the title
we set up in our attribute and of course we could then also listen to changes in that title,
so in that modal title attribute and possibly update it in the modal when that changes. There would be
nothing wrong with that
but I actually want to show you how to use multiple slots because maybe, we also have a modal where we
don't want to force the user into using a h1 tag here,
instead we want to let the user pass in any header the user wants and it could for example also be
h1 tag with an h2 tag below it,
so to have a title and subtitle and for that, I want to use a slot here in my component too. The problem
now of course this I now got two slots right, I got one in the header and I got one in the main section.
Now if we do that and we then go into the modal and we have, let's say our h1 tag here, please confirm,
if I do it like this and I reload this page and open the modal, then it might look right at first
but if we inspect this, we actually see this is not really working out the way we want it to work.
If we have a look at our modal, then in the header,
well both is inserted, the paragraph and the h1 tag
and the main section, there the slot basically is empty. Because what essentially happens here is that
the first slot catches all the content we pass into the component and that makes a lot of sense
because how would Javascript know which part here should end up in which of our slots? What we need
is some kind of identification for each slot,
some ID we assign to a slot which we can then use when we pass in some content to target a specific slot
and we can actually do that.
We can give our slots names and that is totally optional but something we can do
and here I will give my slot a name by adding the name attribute,
this is how you do assign names to slots and I'll name this title
and down there, we now could give this a name of Main or we leave it unnamed
and then any content which we pass in which does not target a specific name will automatically go in
here.
Now let me show you how this works.
So we get this slot named title here,
now back in the index.html file, the content which should go into my named slot will receive an extra
slot attribute and there, I simply point at the name,
so in my case, title, so I use title here on the slot attribute of the content that should go into that
title slot because I have title as a name here.
The second slot has no name and therefore, the content which has no slot attribute automatically goes
into that default slot.
Now I can show this to you if I now reload this page, here
if we now inspect this, we see the header slot has the h1 tag
and if I go into the main section, this slot has the paragraph tag.
And now we got a modal with more options for us to customize it because now we've got multiple slots
where we can pass in content.
And of course we can also still assign a default value here,
so for example, for this named slot just as we can do it for the unnamed slot,
I will add a default content of please confirm payment in case we would not pass in content for this
slot.
Now in our case, we do,
So when I reload, we should still see please confirm instead of my default content of please confirm
payment and indeed we do
and now, all the things you already learned apply. So we can now style this content which we do pass in
from inside our main app so to say, from our main document, we can style that here in the light DOM or
in our modal with a slotted special selector.
So here, this style
in particular has no effect anymore
because we can't target the h1 tag that's passed into the shadow DOM from outside. If we would want to
target anything that gets passed in,
we would have to use the slotted attribute like this.
So now here, I simply add my condition and say I want to style slotted h1's and now if I reload
this, we have that smaller text here.
So this is something we can still do,
basically what you already learned about slots.